# Weeding-Robot
## ABSTRACT           
Agricultural productivity is something on which our economy highly depends. This is the one of the reasons that disease detection in plants plays an important role in agriculture field. Insect  pests  are  dangerous  for  the  overall  growth  of  the  crops.  Several  Integrated  Pest Management strategies have been tailored for the effective management of insect pests under filed condition. But, a prime method to protect the crop may be the regular monitoring of the crop for the occurrence of the insect pests to understand the health of the crop. Early detection of insect  pest  infestation  to  evolve  suitable  management  techniques,  therefore,  would  be  an important step towards successful implementation of pest control strategies at appropriate time targeting the most vulnerable stage of the insect pest. Further, if the insect pests are detected at their early stage, appropriate measures can be taken to protect the crop from future damage that can be caused by the insect thereby immense crop loss can be minimized. This paper presents an algorithm  for  image  segmentation  technique  which  is  used  for  automatic  detection  and classification of plant leaf diseases. It also covers survey on different diseases classification techniques that can be used for plant leaf disease detection. The diagnosis of plant disease by computer  vision  using  image  processing  methodology  is  a  key  for  timely  intervention  and treatment of healthy agricultural procedure and to increase the yield by natural means. Digital image  processing  has  three  basic  steps:  processing,  analysis  and  understanding.  Image processing  contains  the  pre-processing  of  the  plant  leaf  as  segmentation,  color  extraction, diseases specific data extraction and filtration of images. Image analysis generally deals with the classification of diseases. 

## Problem Statement           
To  design  and  develop  a  smart  system  for  early  identification  and  control  of  weeds. Agricultural productivity is something on which our economy highly depends. This is the one of the reasons that disease detection in plants plays an important role in agriculture field. Insect pests are dangerous for the overall growth of the crops. Several Integrated Pest Management strategies have  been  tailored  for  the  effective  management  of  insect  pests  under  filed  condition.  Early detection of insect pest infestation to evolve suitable management techniques, therefore, would be an important step towards successful implementation of pest control strategies at appropriate time targeting the most vulnerable stage of the insect pest. The diagnosis of plant disease by computer vision using image processing methodology is a key for timely intervention and treatment of healthy agricultural procedure and to increase the yield by natural means.

## Aim of project 
To develop 100% autonomous solution powered by rechargeable batteries/engine based to treat up to 10 ha/day. 
Detect and classify weeds and spray pesticides according to the way required.  There is a need for device which is early detection of weed.  
Developing  algorithm  particularly  to  identify  the  weeds  which  are  specific  to  Indian agriculture. 

## Existing System 
Controlling through gesture controlled wireless robot
Over  spraying  the  fertilizers  in  the  farm  land  causing  ecological  imbalance  and reducing the crop yield. 
None of the Indian farmers are making use of technology. They are only predicting through experience on their own. 
When we come with application there is only ‘Plantix’ it has not been trained for Indian Agriculture alliance. It is purely trained only for the US agriculture alliance. 
